
                   Where and how to get new RFCs
                   =============================

RFCs may be obtained via EMAIL or FTP from many RFC Repositories.  The
Primary Repositories will have the RFC available when it is first
announced, as will many Secondary Repositories.  Some Secondary
Repositories may take a few days to make available the most recent
RFCs.

Many of these repositories also now have World Wide Web servers. Try
the following URL as a starting point:

		http://www.rfc-editor.org/


Primary Repositories:

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from NIS.NSF.NET, FTP.RFC-EDITOR.ORG,
WUARCHIVE.WUSTL.EDU, SRC.DOC.IC.AC.UK, FTP.NCREN.NET, FTP.NIC.IT,
FTP.IMAG.FR, FTP.IETF.RNP.BR WWW.NORMOS.ORG, FTP.GIGABELL.NET,
or OASISSTUDIOS.COM.

1.  NIS.NSF.NET

To obtain RFCs from NIS.NSF.NET via FTP, login with username
"anonymous" and password "name@host.domain"; then connect to the
directory of RFCs with cd /internet/documents.  The file name is
of the form rfcnnnn.txt (where "nnnn" refers to the RFC number).

For sites without FTP capability, electronic mail query is available
from NIS.NSF.NET.  Address the request to NIS-INFO@NIS.NSF.NET and
leave the subject field of the message blank.  The first text line of
the message must be "send rfcnnnn.txt" with nnnn the RFC number.

contact:  rfc-mgr@merit.edu

2.  FTP.RFC-EDITOR.ORG

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from FTP.RFC-EDITOR.ORG, with the
pathname in-notes/rfcnnnn.txt (where "nnnn" refers to the number of
the RFC). Login with FTP username "anonymous" and password
"name@host.domain".

RFCs can also be obtained via electronic mail from FTP.RFC-EDITOR.ORG
by using the RFC-INFO service.  Address the request to
"rfc-info@rfc-editor" with a message body of:

	Retrieve: RFC
	   Doc-ID: RFCnnnn

(Where "nnnn" refers to the number of the RFC (always use 4 digits -
the DOC-ID of RFC 822 is "RFC0822")).  The RFC-INFO@RFC-EDITOR.ORG
server provides other ways of selecting RFCs based on keywords and
such; for more information send a message to "rfc-info@rfc-editor.org"
with the message body "help: help".

contact: rfc-editor@rfc-editor.org


3.  WUARCHIVE.WUSTL.EDU

RFCs can also be obtained via FTP from WUARCHIVE.WUSTL.EDU, with the
pathname info/rfc/rfcnnnn.txt.Z (where "nnnn" refers to the number of
the
RFC and "Z" indicates that the document is in compressed form).

At WUARCHIVE.WUSTL.EDU the RFCs are in an "archive" file system and
various archives can be mounted as part of an NFS file system.
Please contact Chris Myers (chris@wugate.wustl.edu) if you want to
mount this file system in your NFS.

WUArchive now keeps RFC's and STD's under

   ftp://wuarchive.wustl.edu./doc/
   or http://wuarchive.wustl.edu./doc/

contact: chris@wugate.wustl.edu


4.  SUNSITE.ORG.UK (also known as SRC.DOC.IC.AC.UK)

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from SUNSITE.ORG.UK with the pathname
rfc/rfcnnnn.txt or rfc/rfcnnnn.ps (where "nnnn" refers to the
number of the RFC).  Login with FTP username "anonymous" and password
"your-email-address".  To obtain the RFC Index, use the pathname
rfc/rfc-index.txt.

For users with good fast Internet connections, the whole archive is
also available by NFS (readonly) and the RFC area can be mounted as,
e.g.

	mount -r sunsite.org.uk:/public/rfc /mnt

RFCs are also available via the web at http://sunsite.org.uk/rfc/

contact: wizards@sunsite.org.uk


5.  FTP.NCREN.NET

To obtain RFCs from FTP.NCREN.NET via FTP, login with username
"anonymous" and your internet e-mail address as password.  The RFCs
can be found in the directory /rfc, with file names of the form:
rfcNNNN.txt or rfcNNNN.ps where NNNN refers to the RFC number.

This repository is also accessible via WAIS and the Internet Gopher.

contact: rfc-mgr@ncren.net


6.  FTP.NIC.IT

RFCs can be obtained from the ftp.nic.it FTP archive with the pathname
rfc/rfcnnnn.txt (where "nnnn" refers to the number of the RFC).  Login
with FTP, username "anonymous" and password "name@host.domain".

The summary of ways to get RFC from the Italian Network Information
Center is the following:

 Via ftp:       ftp.nic.it directory rfc

 Via e-mail:    send a message to  listserv@nic.it  whose body
                contains "get RFC/rfc.[txt,ps]".
                For receiving a full list of the existing RFCs include
                in the body the command "index RFC/rfc".

Contact:  D.Vannozzi@cnuce.cnr.it

7.  FTP.IMAG.FR

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from ftp.imag.fr with the pathname
/pub/archive/IETF/rfc/rfcnnnn.txt (where "nnnn" refers to the number
of the RFC).

Login with FTP username "anonymous" and password "your-email-address".
To obtain the RFC Index, use the pathname
/pub/archive/IETF/rfc/rfc-index.txt

Internet drafts & other IETF related documents are also mirrored in
the /pub/archive/IETF directory.

Contact:  rfc-adm@imag.fr

8.  WWW.NORMOS.ORG

RFCs, STD, BCP, FYI, RTR, IEN, Internet-Drafts, RIPE and other
internet engineering documents can be found at http://www.normos.org
and ftp://ftp.normos.org.

The rfcs are available as:
	http://www.normos.org/ietf/rfc/rfcXXXX.txt
	ftp://ftp.normos.org/ietf/rfc/rfcXXXX.txt

STD,BCP,FYI,RTR,IEN documents are available as:

http://www.normos.org/ietf/[std,bcp,fyi,rtr,ien]/[std,bcp,fyi,rtr,ien]XXXX.txt

ftp://ftp.normos.org/ietf/[std,bcp,fyi,rtr,ien]/[std,bcp,fyi,rtr,ien]XXXX.txt

Internet-drafts are available as:
	http://www.normos.org/ietf/internet-drafts/draft-....txt
	ftp://ftp.normos.org/ietf/internet-drafts/draft-....txt

Full-text search and database queries are available from the web
interface.

Please send questions, comments, suggestions to info@normos.org.

9.  FTP.IETF.RNP.BR

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from FTP.IETF.RNP.BR with the pathname
rfc/rfcnnnn.txt  (where "nnnn" refers to the number of the RFC ) .
Login with FTP username "anonymous" and password
"your-email-address". To obtain the RFC Index, use the pathname
rfc/rfc-index.txt.

Internet-Drafts and other IETF related documents are also mirrored.

Contact:  rfc-admin@ietf.rnp.br

10.  FTP.GIGABELL.NET

To obtain RFCs from FTP.GIGABELL.NET via FTP, login with username
"anonymous" and password "name@host.domain"; then connect to the
directory of RFCs with cd /pub/rfc.  The file name is of the form
rfcnnnn.txt (where "nnnn" refers to the RFC number). An index can be
obtained with the pathname pub/rfc/rfc-index.txt.

contact: ftpadmin@gigabell.net

11.  FTP.FCCN.PT

To obtain RFCs from Oasis Studios via FTP, login to FTP.FCCN.PT with
username "anonymous" and password "name@host.domain"; then connect to
the directory of RFCs with cd /pub/IETF/RFCs. The file name is of the
form rfcnnnn.txt (where "nnnn" refers to the RFC number).

contact: webmaster@fccn.pt

12.  OASISSTUDIOS.COM

To obtain RFCs from Oasis Studios via FTP, login to
FTP.OASISSTUDIOS.COM with username "anonymous" and password
"name@host.domain"; then connect to the directory of RFCs with cd
/pub/RFC.  The file name is of the form rfcnnnn.txt (where "nnnn"
refers to the RFC number).

For sites without FTP capability, electronic mail query is available
from oasisstudios@OASISSTUDIOS.COM.  Address the request to
oasisstudios@OASISSTUDIOS.COM and leave the body of the message
blank. The subject of the message must be "send rfcnnnn.txt" where
nnnn is the RFC number.


Oasis Global Inc. also provides an HTTP interface to the RFC
archive. To browse or search the archives via a web browser surf to:
http://www.oasisstudios.com/RFC

For more information send a message to "rfc-info@OASISSTUDIOS.COM"
with the subject "help".

contact:  rfc-admin@oasisstudios.com


13.  SUNSITE.DK

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from SUNSITE.DK with the pathname
mirrors/rfc/rfcnnnn.txt or mirrors/rfc/rfcnnnn.ps (where "nnnn" refers
to the number of the RFC).  Login with FTP username "anonymous" and
password "your-email-address".  To obtain the RFC Index, use the
pathname rfc/rfc-index.txt.

RFCs are also available via the web at: http://mirrors.sunsite.dk/rfc/

contact: staff@sunsite.dk


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Secondary Repositories:

Australia and Pacific Rim
-------------------------

        Site:           munnari
        Contact:        Robert Elz 
        Host:           munnari.oz.au
        Directory:      rfc
                        rfc's in compressed format rfcNNNN.Z
                        postscript rfc's rfcNNNN.ps.Z


	Site:		The Programmers' Society
			University of Technology, Sydney
	Contact:	ftp@progsoc.uts.edu.au
	Host:		ftp.progsoc.uts.edu.au
	Directory:	pub/internet
			Both are stored uncompressed.

Chile
-----
        Site:           OK Internet
        Host:           http://www.ok.cl/rfcs/
        Directory:      http://www.ok.cl/rfcs/

Denmark
-------
	Site:		University of Copenhagen
	Host:		ftp.denet.dk
	Directory:	mirror/ftp.isi.edu/in-notes


Finland
-------
	Site:		FUNET
	Host:		nic.funet.fi
	Directory:	index/RFC
	Directory:      /pub/netinfo/rfc
	Notes:		RFCs in compressed format.  Also provides
			email access by sending mail to
			archive-server@nic.funet.fi.


France
------
        Site:           Centre d'Informatique Scientifique et Medicale
                        (CISM)
        Contact:        ftpmaint@univ-lyon1.fr
        Host:           ftp.univ-lyon1.fr
        Directories:    pub/rfc/*       Classified by hundreds
                        pub/mirrors/rfc Mirror of Internic
        Notes:          Files compressed with gzip. Online
                        decompression done by the FTP server.


Romania
-------

	Site:		SunSITE Romania at the Politehnica University
			of Bucharest
	Contact:	space@sunsite.pub.ro
	Host:		sunsite.pub.ro/pub/rfc
			or via http:
			sunsite.pub.ro/pub/mirrors/ds.internic.net
		
	
South Africa
------------

	Site:		The Internet Solution
	Contact:	ftp-admin@is.co.za
	Host:		ftp.is.co.za
	Directory:	internet/in-notes/rfc


Sweden
------

	Host:		ftp.chalmers.se
	Directory:	rfc


United Kingdom
--------------

	Site:		rfc.net
        Contact:	Alaric Williams 


United States
-------------

	Site:           uunet
        Contact:        James Revell 
        Host:           ftp.uu.net
        Directory:      inet/rfc


UUNET Archive
-------------

     UUNET archive, which includes the RFC's, various IETF documents,
     and other information regarding the internet, is available to the
     public via anonymous ftp (to ftp.uu.net) and anonymous uucp, and
     will be available via an anonymous kermit server soon.  Get the
     file /archive/inet/ls-lR.Z for a listing of these documents.

     Any site in the US running UUCP may call +1 900 GOT SRCS and use
     the login "uucp".  There is no password.  The phone company will
     bill you at $0.50 per minute for the call.  The 900 number only
     works from within the US.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Requests for special distribution of RFCs should be addressed to
either the author of the RFC in question or to
RFC-EDITOR@RFC-EDITOR.ORG

Submissions for Requests for Comments should be sent to
RFC-EDITOR@RFC-EDITOR.ORG.  Please consult "Instructions to RFC
Authors", RFC 2223, for further information.

Requests to be added to or deleted from the RFC distribution list
should
be sent to RFC-REQUEST@ISI.EDU.

Users with .MIL addresses may send a request to MAJORDOMO@NIC.DDN.MIL
with an empty Subject: line and a message: subscribe rfc [your email
address].

Changes to this file "rfc-retrieval.txt" should be sent to
RFC-EDITOR@RFC-EDITOR.ORG.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


